Live: https://tsammons.github.io/musicGen/

** only works with chrome as far as I know **

Today, computers are inseparable from music:  some of the most popular music is created electronically, and what is not created electronically is usually stored and played on electronic devices. The beginnings of computer generated music were slightly more modest, but its history is about as long as the history of computers themselves. 

In Steven Levy’s book, we can see how programmers were eager to intertwine the musical and electronic worlds from the start:  one of the first machines to not use cards to program, the TX-0, would “make a sort of music, like a poorly tuned electric organ” while the program ran. Instead of creating sound through vibrations, however, computers were doing it through code. This code only became music “while millions of blindingly brief exchanges of data were taking place in the accumulator sitting in one of the metal, wire, and silicon racks that comprised the TX-0.” In fact, one of the original principles in his “hacker ethics” explains this desire:  original hackers held firmly to the belief that “you can create art and beauty on a computer.” To people interested in computers, the machines do not merely present technical challenges, they are instruments through which creativity can be expressed. In the spirit of this hacker principle, I decided to create my own version of an interactive music generator, hopefully easier to program than the TX-0. 

When the index.html file of my program is opened, a box shows up with a green line scrolling to the right. You can click anywhere in the box, and a rectangle will be shaded in. When the green line crosses over the box, the corresponding note will play. Using this, the user can program certain sounds or songs. I also implemented a random music generator that will fill in approximately 1/10 of the notes at random.